Feature/exercise list organisation (#15)
Ben-Woolley/java-for-beginners-docs: exercises/exercise-list.md

# Java For Beginners - Exercises

* [Topic 2 Exercises](#exercise-list-topic-2)
* [Topic 3 Exercises](#exercise-list-topic-3)

# Exercise List Topic 2

This exercise list is to practice the content presented in [lecture 2](../lessons/lesson2)

> 

Reviewer: I think we should add some instructions here about the unique codes and what they refer to within the code repo/ how to use them. Maybe give an example for the first one "for instance the Variables and Basic Operators exercise has unique code VABO. So you can start this exercise off by finding folder xxxx" or something like that

## \[VABO] Variables and Basic Operators

> ### Printing Varaibles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Printing Variables
```

In a `main`, define a `String`, `Integer`, and `Boolean` variable.
1. `System.out.println` (print) each of them separately.
2. Print them together in a sentence (which may or may not make sense).

### \[MAOP] Math Operations

> Write a program that has 2 Integer variables `a` and `b`, print the result of each of applying addition, subtraction, division, multiplication, and modulus of `a` to `b`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write a program that takes 2 integer variables `a` and `b` and prints the result of applying each of these calculations using `a` and `b`: addition, subtraction, division, multiplication, and modulus.
```

e.g given a = 10 and b = 2, print:

```java

> //print 12 (a+b)

Reviewer: I find this confusing, are we asking them to print "print <answer>" or just the answer? I think if we're giving them an example, the example solution should be complete as well (no etc)

Author: Indeedy, next sweep will improve the wording of the exercises and expected outputs

//print 8 (a-b)
//etc
```

### \[MCMP] Math Comparisons

> Write a program that has 2 Integer variables `a` and `b`, print the result of each of applying equal, greater than, less than, greater than or equal, and less than or equal of `a` to `b`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write a program that takes 2 integer variables `a` and `b` and prints the result of applying each of the following comparisons using `a` and `b`: equal, greater than, less than, greater than or equal to, and less than or equal to.

e.g given a = 10 and b = 2, print:
```java
a equals b // false
a > b // true
a < b // false
```

### \[HINH] Hello, *Insert name here*!
Write your own "Hello, world!" program, then extend it to take a name as input from the console and say hello to the inputted name instead.

You should use `UserInputUtil` in the `eca.util` package, you will have to `import` it.

### \[OOEV] OddOrEven

> Write a Java program to accept a number and check the number is even or not. Output the `Boolean` value of  the result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write a Java program to accept a number and check the number is even or not. Output the `Boolean` value of the result
```

e.g for a number a = 10 print `true`

### \[SETE] Sum is equal to Expected
Write a Java program to calculate the sum of two integers and return true if the sum is equal to a third integer

e.g for:
```java
a = 10
b = 5
c = 15
print true (a + b = c)
```

### \[GWNT] Guess What Number I'm Thinking
Write a program that thinks of a random number between 1 and 10.
Let the user enter a number, if it is correct print "You win!" otherwise print "You lose!".

> You will need some way to get a random number within a range, [java has many ways and developers are still arguing over which are the best](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/363681/how-do-i-generate-random-integers-within-a-specific-range-in-java).

Reviewer: I'd argue that our students don't really care about whether this is the best way of getting Random or not. I would probably simplify this to say "you can get a random number by using: `new Random().nextInt(x)` changing x to be the upper bound of your range"

Author: yep removed

Create a program that takes 3 inputs (using `UserInputUtil` again) individually:
* A first number
* A second number
* A **mathematical operator** as a `String`

Pretty-print the mathematical calculation requested, and then the result.

e.g. an input of:
```
1
2
+
```
would result in printing `1 + 2 = 3`

**Bonus** - if the operator entered is not supported, print `Unsupported operator *operator*`.

## Lists and Loops
### \[PRLI] Printing Lists
Make a `List` of the names of your favourite foods (in order of most to least favourite). With this list:
1. Print them out on a line each.
2. Then use it in a sentence e.g. `If I could, I would eat ice cream for every meal`.
3. Then add the rank of each food to the beginning of each line e.g. `1) If I could...`.

### \[NTTA] N Times Table
Write a program that prints out the `n` times table in a pretty format e.g

```java
1 X 2 = 2
2 X 2 = 4
...
```

### \[SELI] Searching Lists
Given a list of integers, find and print the largest, find and print the smallest, find and print a specified value (or null if it doesnt exist)

e.g given the following list of integers `[1,2,3,4,5]` and a specified value m = 3 print:
```java
Min: 1

> Max: 3

Reviewer: is this a typo? shouldn't it be 5?

* [Topic 2 Exercises](#exercise-list-topic-2)
* [Topic 3 Exercises](#exercise-list-topic-3)

> Each exercise has a 4-character code. This corresponse to a folder in the `java-for-beginners` project under `src/main/java/eca/exercises`. This folder contains the class or classes in which you can implement your solution to the exercise.

Reviewer: typo: corresponds

Author: sorted
